- [Instructor] Now let's take a look
at the include directive of JSP.
This is basically used to include any JSP resources
in the current JSP, that's what this is for.
It looks like this, there's an angle bracket,
a percentage sign, an at rate symbol,
which denotes that it is a directive.
After that, the name of the directive, which is include.
Like the page directive,
if you want to pass any extra information to this directive,
it will be in the form of attributes.
Now why do we want do use this, where is this used?
In a typical web application,
your software's ticketed web pages
could pull out data from multiple sources.
You may have a lot of screens in your application.
Let's say your screen is this.
This screen can actually be divided into components.
The first one is the Header component,
which has the logo of the organization and its name.
Then you have the Menu, which gives you a lot of options
to traverse across the application.
Then you have one more part, which is the Footer,
which generally holds the copyright information.
Then you have the main body, which has got the content
that keeps on changing dynamically.
If you look at the Header, Menu, and Footer,
they're more or less the static parts of your pages.
Let's say if like this I have 10 other screens
in my application, it is not going to be advisable
to put on this Header, Menu, and Footer code
in each of those 10 screens.
Basically, it'll be like duplicating code,
it's redundancy, and it's non-maintainable.
Let's say tomorrow the logo of my organization changes,
I will have to make a change at all the 10 pages,
which is not a very good thing.
What we could do is,
we could actually break this page into atomic pieces.
One of them will be the Header piece,
the other one, Menu, and yet another one, Footer.
Then we separate these atomic pieces into their own pages.
Now when we construct a screen, what we could do is,
we could include the Header JSP, include the Menu JSP,
include the Footer JSP,
and then go on and write the code for the main content.
That's exactly what include directive does for us.
It helps you to include these atomic pieces together
and prepare a whole page.
This concept is very close
to the composite view design pattern that we generally have
in case of web application page development.
Let's see how to implement this.
Let's go to our code.
If you look at our application, this is the landing page.
Let's say home.
If you look at the hyperlinks here at the top right corner,
now let me click on Search, and let me search for a product.
When I click on the Search button,
do you see these hyperlinks?
They are actually the same.
What I could do is,
for the searchresults.jsp, and for my landing page,
I know that the Menu links are almost going to be the same.
I can do one thing.
Let's go to the code now,
and look at this Header part on searchresults.jsp
from lines number 15 through 37.
What I could do is,
I could extract this code out, let me cut this,
right, so what I'm going to do is,
I'm going to delete that place holder of header.jsp,
and recreate it for this demo purposes.
I have cut that Header code,
and now let me make a separate JSP file
under this folder by the name header.jsp,
and let me insert that entire header related code down here.
What I've done is I've pasted that code from line number 10
to line number 32.
The entire Header code is now in its own individual file,
header.jsp.
Now, what I could do is, I could go to searchresults.jsp,
and I could use the include directive here
to include that header.jsp file.
Let's see how.
Let's write out that directive, add the rate, and include.
In order to include another file,
you will have to mention an attribute,
which is called file, and give the path of that JSP.
Basically, using this directive on line number 15,
I am trying to include header.jsp
on the searchresults.jsp at exactly this place.
Let me do one thing,
let me run this code and check the changes.
I want to click on Search,
and so refresh this, yeah, so nothing changed.
Now, it would one change, I will still get the Header,
but now, I have extracted this header completely
into a separate JSP
and included that using our include directive.
That's how you can use include directives for various
portions of your page, which are individual atomic pieces.
Let's say now tomorrow if there is any change
in the header.jsp,
I will just need to make the change at one place,
which is this code.
Since I have included this page in all the other screens,
the change will automatically get reflected there.
This include directive thereby
is going to help us do coding,
which will promote reusability
and definitely will have better maintainability.
As for the third directive, which is stack lib,
we can only see that
when we see Java server pages stack library.